Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Biography, Drama,
History film from 2011 that is based on true
events, titled Colonia.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Lena is a stewardess and her plane lands in
Chile.
The pilot and flight attendants are driving
in a van, but it's stopped because the street
is blocked.
There are protests against inflation and food
shortages going on.
She sees her long distance boyfriend Daniel
and gets out of the van.
He notices her too and walks up to her and
they kiss.
She wanted to surprise him so she didn't tell
him she was coming.
They go to his apartment.
She looks around to see photographs and posters
and says he's been busy.
He says he didn't come to Chile for nothing.
Lena says he has passed the home inspection
but he still needs to be searched and they
make out.
Later he brings Lena to a meeting of his movement.
He is brought on stage and gives a speech.
He came to Chile 4 months ago, and it has
become his country.
Daniel believes that they all need more solidarity
and that the suffering of many shouldn’t
be the foundation of wealth for a few.
The crowd cheers.
Next morning he makes breakfast but seems
to have forgotten to put on pants.
She grabs his camera and starts taking photos.
He chases after her and says i love you and
they start kissing.
Later he's developing the photos.
She compliments him on having a great eye
and says they have gotten so much better.
When they get to bed, Daniel says he can't
believe she has to leave in 2 days and asks
her to stay with him.
Lena says she can't stay but maybe he can
come back to Germany.
Following morning Daniel gets a phone call.
He is informed that there's been a military
coup, general Pinochet has taken over, president
Allende supporters are being arrested and
that Daniel’s posters at the university
were confiscated.
They are coming to his apartment so they have
to leave immediately.
When they get on the street people are being
lined up by the military.
He starts discreetly taking photos of the
chaos.
A shot is heard and people start running in
panic but the military chase them down and
whack them.
He's still taking photos and starts walking
closer for better shots but gets noticed.
They take his camera and start beating him
as well.
Lena tries to stop them but her attempts are
futile.
They are brought to a stadium.
Daniel says they’re foreign citizens but
is ignored, receives a blow to the stomach
and is ordered to get in line and stay quiet.
A general informs people that law and order
is being established in Chile and everyone
who's there by mistake will soon be released.
Soldiers have orders to shoot everyone who
moves or talks.
They are brought to the middle of the stadium
where a chopper lands.
A general and a man with a bag over his head
walk out.
He points out Allende supporters from the
crowd.
The first one gets taken away but the second
voices his support for their opposition and
is shot.
He gets past Daniel but takes a second look
and tells them he made the posters.
He is taken to a bus and driven away.
Lena is released from the stadium.
There are dozens of people looking for their
loved ones.
She gets back to Daniel's apartment and finds
it trashed.
Lena goes to the Allende supporters looking
for answers.
They inform her he's been taken to “The
colony of dignity”.
She says they need to get him out but they
state that nothing can be done about Daniel
and that they're going into hiding.
Daniel wakes up tied to a metal bed.
A man walks in and starts interrogating him.
Daniel says that he's German and is innocent.
The man starts electrocuting him.
He's beaten and tortured by the army until
Pius turns up pretending to be a caring savior.
Pius says that he's here now and there's no
danger anymore so Daniel can relax.
Lena goes to Amnesty International, which
is a global movement to end human rights abuses.
The man tells her that “The colony of dignity”
is a long established, respectable and government
approved enterprise.
He then signals her to keep quiet and they
act like she leaves.
He then starts playing loud music and tells
her he's being bugged and they can talk now.
He informs her that her boyfriend is in a
cult run by Pius, who ran from Germany after
World War 2 and has set up a world with his
own rules in the middle of nowhere.
She asks if she could get in, but is warned
that she may never get back out.
Lena leaves a letter for the pilot saying
that she won't be coming and asks him to cover
for her and that she will be on the next week's
flight.
She dresses like a nun, takes the bus and
travels south.
When she gets off, the driver instructs her
to walk towards the mountain.
She walks through the fields and finds a fenced-off
area in the woods with guard towers.
Lena reaches the gate and a hatch opens with
a woman saying, “God bless.”
She responds with the same and is let in by
a senior cult member Gisela.
She escorts her to a building and asks if
she wants to join them.
Lena says yes and that she wants to follow
the lord.
Gisela takes her passport and other belongings,
throws them in a box, and takes them to another
room, saying she won't be needing any of them.
As Lena is looking around, a boy leaves a
different room.
She sees him crying and asks if he's alright,
but Gisela comes back and tells her to leave
him alone because it's none of her business.
A woman takes the kid while telling him to
pull himself together and stop crying.
Gisela tells Lena it's her turn to go in the
room to do a general confession.
She enters and sees the cult leader Pius.
He asks her name and tells her that once she
joins, she must remain and Lena agrees.
He tells her she's attractive and must have
a boyfriend.
Lena denies this and says she wants to follow
the lord but he can see in her eyes and soul
that she isn't being truthful.
Pius then orders her to take off her apron
and open her blouse.
When she does he declares, “Gray rags on
the outside and instruments of a prostitute
beneath.”
He then stands up and smells her while saying
that he can smell the beast of hell.
He goes on aggressively questioning whether
she renounces Satan, sins of the flesh and
all lies and deceit.
Finally he asks why she's here, to which Lena
responds that she's here for Pius, because
she needs him.
He thinks she has finally spoken truthfully
and hugs her.
Gisela explains that men, women and children
live separately because it's better for everyone
that way.
She shows her the women's dorm and instructs
Lena to use a bandage to tie down her breasts
and take off her shoes because she looks like
a slut.
In the evening the other women return from
work.
Lena greets them but they don't respond and
avoid eye contact.
When Gisela has left a woman next to her Doro
asks if she's from the outside and Lena says
yes.
Doro starts giggling and asks if she can tell
her a secret and says she may be getting married
soon.
Lena is confused because men and women live
separately.
Gisela comes back, interrupting their conversation
and starts giving out mandatory pills without
explaining what they are.
The next day Daniel is being evaluated by
a doctor who is horrified about his condition.
She thinks the electric shocks may have damaged
his cortex.
Pius states that everyone is good for something.
Meanwhile Lena is working with other women
harvesting potatoes.
She gets dizzy and falls on the ground.
Gisela starts whipping her while calling her
a lazy slut.
Lena says she just needs some water.
Gisela brings a bucket full of water, but
Lena is forbidden to drink it and must carry
it around.
Lena cries herself to sleep that night.
A week has passed.
There's been a schedule change and all women
go to the women's hall.
Lena gets a chance to ask Doro about her fiance,
she explains they only met once, 3 years ago
at the mixed parade and have been in love
since.
Pius is saying a bunch of religious stuff
and the men cheer to his every phrase.
He's trying to resurrect a dead guy.
The women are in the next room channelling
their energy or whatever.
Some guy stands up to the mic and says that
they all heard God's voice through Pius but
concludes that their wish couldn't come through
because there's too much sin in their community.
They start wailing.
Another month passes.
Daniel, who acts mentally challenged and calls
himself Hans, is brought to a blacksmith.
The doctor tells him that Hans is as dumb
as they come and that he just needs to keep
an eye on him.
The blacksmith gives him a meaningless task
and Daniel plays the part.
When the blacksmith is gone Daniel explores
his surroundings and manages to get into a
darkroom and finds a camera.
He gets caught but plays dumb and says he
needs to pee.
While working Gisela pulls Lena aside and
starts talking about the marriage.
Thinking it's common knowledge, Lena mentions
that the groom's name is Deiter.
That night Gisela comes in and takes Doro,
who is crying and struggling.
She forgets to lock the door so Lena follows
to see what they're doing . She looks through
the window and sees all the men in the room,
with a kid singing in front and Doro looking
distressed.
Pius tells the kid to stop and starts smelling
the air.
He states that it still stinks and that even
the divine singing couldn't drive the devil
out.
The men agree to everything Pius says and
exaggerate all of his emotions.
Pius asks Deiter what he thinks about this
“ugly stinking cow”.
He looks hesitant but says it stinks.
He's then asked to come up and relieve her
from the stench.
Pius states that it's the demons he smells
and they need to be driven out.
Doro begs for mercy but Pius says “what
we do, we do with love.”
Dieter starts hitting her and all the men
cheer.
Lena finds Daniel in the crowd.
Pius then asks the other men to help out Dieter,
but Lena gets noticed and runs back to the
dorm.
Not knowing which of the women it was, Pius
starts beating Gisela for not locking the
door.
The next day Lena catches Ursel alone and
inquires about Doro’s condition.
Ursel says “She’ll survive”.
Lena then asks how to be taken to men's gathering
like Doro.
The women are working the field and Gisela
gets distracted, so Lena runs off and goes
for a swim.
Later Lena is sent to the men's gathering
for defiling the water with her “stinking
naked body” but can't see Daniel.
Pius explains how all women are full of lies
and deceit and need to be cleansed.
The men start the cleansing, but a loud horn
interrupts them.
Daniel has been trying to escape and has triggered
an alarm.
He tries to climb over the fence, but gets
electrified and passes out.
They find Daniel but don't punish him since
they think his brain is fried from the torture
and he just wandered off.
3 Months pass.
Pius is in the boys dormitory and they sing
to him.
He makes his pick for the day and 3 of them
go shower.
He enters shortly after.
There's a mixed parade and everyone puts on
their best clothes and is instructed to smile
and wave their flags.
As cars are driving through, Daniel finally
sees Lena for the first time after 130 days
of them both being there.
She asks him to meet at the potato shed at
night.
Pius sells the government weapons and offers
torture services, so they turn a blind eye
to this place.
The general also wants to buy poison gas they
produce but wants to see if it works first.
Pius finally finds a use for Daniel.
Daniel volunteers for guard duty and goes
to see Lena.
He says he's sorry they brought her here but
Lena says she joined up to find him.
Daniel explains that they dont hide anything
from him because they think his brain is fried.
Once in a while he allows them to meet to
make children, but takes the kids away from
their mothers at 3 months so they never even
know their parents.
As they're talking he steps on a hatch and
he climbs down to find a lit tunnel.
Gisela comes back for Lena as her shift is
over.
Daniel stays down and explores.
When he finds the room he was tortured in
he gets flashbacks and decides to smash the
equipment.
The next morning Lena is asked to see Pius
through the speakers.
He rambles about how you can't trust women
with brains because they lose their way easily
and instructs her to spy on Ursel, because
he can smell that she's up to something.
He arranges for them to see each other more.
Lena knows that Ursel hates being here so
they are honest with each other.
Ursel says she was brought to the compound
when she was 9 by her mother- Gisela.
Later that day Daniel is having a medical
examination.
He's drooling and repeats random words people
say.
As he leaves he accidentally drops the cross.
Ursel opens it up and finds a photo of him
and Lena.
He also thinks he has found the exit because
it was the only tunnel blocked with steel
bars.
They have to leave tonight because the poison
gas will be tested on him tomorrow.
Daniel wants to expose this place so he took
a bunch of photos of the tunnels with the
camera from the workshop.
Lena says they wouldn't even be here if he
didn’t take pictures in the first place.
They are interrupted by the sounds of Gisela's
tractor and Daniel goes back in the tunnels
but drops one of the photos and Lena hides
it under a bucket.
Gisela drops Ursel off but she forgot her
knife, so Gisela goes to fetch it.
They start talking and soon learn they both
were told to spy on the other.
Lena asks why Pius is doing all of this.
She thinks it's because he loves power and
the little boys.
She tells Lena that she found the photo in
the cross and knows they are planning to escape
and tells her she is pregnant.
Gisela comes back and notices Lena is holding
the same potato, so she tells her to move.
She picks up the bucket and finds the photo.
Pius is interrogating her but Daniel shows
up and says he's the one that found it and
leads them to the blacksmith's darkroom.
They find all the photos in the blacksmith's
notebook, so Pius thinks he betrayed him and
lets Lena go.
Gisela is escorting her back but Lena notices
Daniel in the shadows and manages to hit Gisela
with a branch.
By this time Pius realizes he's been duped
and everyone starts frantically looking for
Lena and Daniel.
They run back to Ursel, enter the tunnels
and Daniel cuts the lock.
They manage to get outside, but Ursel steps
on a tripwire, gets shot and dies instantly.
Lena and Daniel hitch a ride and manage to
get to the German embassy, where they show
them the photos.
They are given passports but are informed
their flight is only in a week.
Lena calls the pilot and manages to get 2
seats for today's flight.
The lady isn't happy and makes a phone call.
Two diplomats get them into the airport through
an underground entrance and put them in a
room, saying that they will get them as soon
as boarding starts.
A bit later they see Pius meeting with them
and realize they're locked in, so they escape
through the window.
They run through the airport, get out on the
runaway and drive a baggage cart to the plane.
Pius pulls some strings and the tower cancels
their flight permit.
After some pondering the pilot takes off and
they manage to get out of Chile.
The photos smuggled out caused a major global
scandal, but the Chilean government did nothing.
“The Colony of Dignity” was allowed to
operate for 17 more years until Pinochet came
out of power and Chile transitioned to Democracy.
The End.
Thank you for watching!
Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos
like this.